Software Engineer Biography: Blake Ross
I picked Blake Ross as the subject of my biography because I have always wondered why Firefox came about as an internet browser. Google chrome is my browser of choice out of habit, and it came about to work with the google search engine, but I thought it was interesting how Firefox came about.

Early Life: Blake Aaron Ross was born on June 12th, 1985 in Miami, Florida and raised in Key Biscayne, Florida. The youngest of 3 children Blake was always interested in software developing his first website at age 10 via American Online. By middle school he was displaying signs of being a real software talent having developed several primitive video games. He attended high school at Gulliver Preparatory School until he graduated in 2003. 
Mozilla Firefox: At age 16 Ross became an intern at Netscape, formerly an America independent computer services company. Its internet browser Netscape was the dominant browser up until the early to mid-90s. Ross took the internship with his mother’s user experience frustrations with windows explorer. While interning Ross became less and less enthusiastic to work on the Netscape browser particularly after America Online had bought it and given it a new direction. The two software engineers thought the commercial requirements of Netscape's new owners and developer-driven feature creep compromised the utility of the Mozilla browser; their solution was to create a stand-alone browser with less complicating features. Ross and future co-founder Dave Hyatt wanted to create a smaller browser with an easier to use approach and wider appeal to replace Mozilla suite, thus Firefox was born. Ross founded the Mozilla Firefox project Hyatt in the year 2002. Firefox was an open-source project that gained incredible traction and by April 2003 nearly all of Mozilla’s resources were being devoted to Firefox, with Firefox completely replacing Mozilla suite. By the time of its launch on 9th of November 2004 Ross was 19, Firefox grew quickly grabbing huge market shares with over 60 million downloads in its first nine months. Firefox went on to reach over 1.5 million daily downloads in 2010.
Firefox itself: As mentioned previously Firefox is an open-source web browser. It uses the Gecko layout in order to render web pages, implementing web standards. Firefox was loved for its speed and security as well as its expansive list of addons, this still holds true today with Firefox Quantum, Mozilla’s new web engine released in 2017 is the fastest web browser according to a report from tech radar in 2019. At the height of its popularity Firefox at the end of 2009 the browser had reached roughly 32.21% market share with Firefox 3.5, after this point Google chrome began to take the vast majority of the market shares, this has continued to present with estimate putting Google chrome at roughly 69% and Firefox falling to just 8% placing it third behind safari and chrome.
After Firefox: Ross went on to found his own software company with one of his former colleagues at Netscape Joe Hewitt, who many attribute most of the user interface and code. Hewitt and Ross called the company Parakey with the expressed purpose of bridging the gap between the desktop and the internet. Ross described the idea behind Parakey as "a Web operating system that can do everything an OS can do.”.  At the time Ross and Hewitt thought that writing, videos, and images were too difficult to post on the internet often involving multiple steps and different software’s like Flikr or Blogger. On July 20th, 2007 Facebook acquired Parakey as there first ever acquisition. Ross continued to work for Facebook up until 2013 when he left the company to pursue other endeavours. 
Personal life: Ross achieved and created long after he left Mozilla notably creating a script for HBO’s Silicon Valley TV show which gained a lot of popularity online. Currently Ross works for Uber in Product Strategy. In 2016 Ross was diagnosed with aphantasia, a mental condition characterized by an inability to voluntarily visualize mental imagery with many people suffering from this condition also suffer from an inability to recall smells, sounds or sensations of touch. Ross only struggled with visual memory remarking “I have never visualized anything in my entire life. I can’t "see" my father's face or a bouncing blue ball, my childhood bedroom or the run I went on ten minutes ago. I thought "counting sheep" was a metaphor. I’m 30 years old and I never knew a human could do any of this.” In a Facebook post on the subject on the 22nd of April 2016.
Blake Ross has left a considerable impact on the world of software engineering most notably for Mozilla Firefox, he is still involved and young so we may not have heard the last from him yet. Currently his net worth sits at $150 million, so his success is clear to see.

Sourcs:
Blake Ross:-1.  https://www.celebritynetworth.com/richest-businessmen/blake-ross-net-worth/#:~:text=Blake%20Ross%20net%20worth%3A%20Blake,at%20a%20very%20early%20age.
2. https://millennialentrepreneurs.com/starting-young-blake-ross-and-mozilla-firefox/ 
3. https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/get-started-firefox-overview-main-features 
Firefox:- https://www.techradar.com/best/browser 



